

From the book of Barg:
Today the day 38 in this paradise world of Odin we call Valheim, me and Morg came across a greyling 
that seemed to be interested in one of the silver necklaces we just dug up from an old grave.  
We tossed the necklace on the ground and it slowly approached us. After yet another necklace was tossed to 
the greyling it followed us back to the camp. Morg managed to train it to refill the kiln without burning 
itself to bad and fed it with resin. Tomorrow I will try to show it how to work the smelter.
Soon the enslavement can be perfected.

From the book of Barg:
Today the day 41 in this paradise world of Odin we call Valheim.  Morg tried to train the Greyling to pick up Kiln output coal and place them in a nearby chest. 
This seem to confuse the feeble creature to the extent that it started to feed everything it found into out fire pit and we had to terminate the pore creature before the entire camp stood in flames. 
We will have to limit the complexity of tasks for these creatures in the future.

From the book of Barg:
Today the day 42 in this paradise world of Odin we call Valheim, me and Morg gave the two greylings the names Berith and Dumbass. We think one is female but cannot really tell them apart, 
except from a sense of identity we can feel when moving up close to them. The naming caused some misunderstanding when me and Morg was trying to use different names, but an improvement in our sense of identity 
sorted this problem just fine.
Another improvement in the Greyling training is that we have trained them to not hast into a task without thinking it through. We noted that this improved the quality of their work, even if it results in a slower progress.

From the book of Barg:
Today the day 43 in this paradise world of Odin we call Valheim. This morning we woke up and both Berith and Dumbass, as we now call the greylings, were gone. We soon realized that there were no resin left for them to eat. 
After several hours of searching we found Berith hiding in some bushes, but Dumbass were never found. They blend in good in the nature and when tame they don't attack as they do when wild, so it is hard to find them. 
This problem will have to be addressed before escape greylings is starting to create problems in Eikthyr forest.

From the book of Barg:
Today the day 45 in this paradise world of Odin we call Valheim. Today I realized that the Greylings are far more adaptable then expected. 
Already after a short period among us they tend to look in chests and houses for food rather then wondering of into the forest. By encouraging this behavior the need for fencing might be limited in the future.
Another discovery of this adaptation was when Morg, enraged of Sig's overenthusiastic farting, throw his axe on Stig. To our surprise Stig looked a bit afraid from being hurt, but showed almost no sign of damage.
We thought the rich amount of resin in their food made them harder, but pitching Stig against a skeleton killed him as easy as any other greyling. This must be an adaptation to the environment we did not count on.
More experiments might help us understand this behavior better, but now we will hunt some Boar for this evening barbeque.

From the book of Barg:
Today the day 48 in this paradise world of Odin we call Valheim.  After building our first bee-hive I tried to get NewStig to harvest the honey. 
I am sad to report that there is no more bee-hive and NewStig were running in panic into the Fire and died. It seems like the newly developed urban adaptation does not include fire. 
It seems like the greylings have problem of understanding that there are living creatures in the bee-hive and react as if the yellow moving mass is some kind of strange fire. 
We will have to keep them away from the bee-hives in the future.


From the book of Barg:
Today the day 56 in this paradise world of Odin we call Valheim.  Today Me and Morg traveled out into the vast planes in the south. 
We there encountered a new Biome where evil mosquitos, herds of wildebeest's and the fuling clans dwell. 
The Fuling seems like a smart creature and I fear we will have to tread carefully across  their land to not meet an early end to our adventures. 
Morg is still tending to his wounds and I suspect we need better plans and preparations before we venture further into the land of the Fulings.

From the book of Barg:
...heard an innovative string of curses from Morg when one of the greylings snatched some ore from the chest he was looking into. Seems we need to teach them some manners. 
Later today Morg found Tomas hiding behind a birch some ways away from our settlement, the creature had been standing there so long that a family of mice had taken up residence in a crevice in its back. 
I wonder how many more of our presumably lost critters is lurking about out of sight. Some experiments to find a way to call them back is needed.

I spent most of the day repairing stuff around the settlement, it is tedious work. 
I gave up trying to teach the greylings as they could not even hold the hammer properly. But I have another creature in mind, one that has a hammer built in. Need to figure out a way to approach it ..

From the book of Barg:
Today the day 62 in this paradise world of Odin we call Valheim, I managed to teach the Greylings to answer to a whistle call. 
We soon realized that the greylings are spreading things we teach them between each other, because Brynäs and Slagpåse both came wondering when we were training.
Morg will move out into the forest and try the call tomorrow. Maybe Berith and Jackass are still out there, If we did not kill them. All greylings and names are somewhat mixed in my memory.

From The book of Barg:
Today the day 62 in this paradise world of Odin we call Valheim. Today Huginn must have whispered in his masters ear about my earlier thoughts.
I was foraging in the dark forest when I came upon a tower ruin that was in pretty good condition. But what was inside was the greater supprise.
An enourmous greydwarf was trapped inside the tower, to large to fit its arched doorway. It must have been in there since it was a mere sapling.
This was the perfect opportunity to find a way to make the creature docile enough to use as labor around the settlement. 
Many hours and many attempts later Morg brought what would be they key to success, Dandelions.
This pretty little weed seemed to bring peace to the mind of the giant creature and soon enough it had settled down. I named it Brutus and we had to tear down a wall in the tower to get it out.
Almost giddy with excitement we soon discovered what I had hoped to be true, it could use its rock-fist as a hammer and showed great skill when it came to repairing worn down structures.
It is truly a remarkable world that Odin has put us upon!

